https://www.daily-sun.com/printversion/details/208265/2017/02/26/Mindset-and-classroom-environment

Mindset and classroom environment
Tahiya Obaidur Rahman
Publish: Saturday, 25 February, 2017 18:00
Mindset and classroom environment
Classroom fosters knowledge sharing and develops the mindset to work in a group.  Students get a disciplined life by attending the classes.

 

It is an important tier of our educational infrastructure. A classroom is a rendezvous of young minds to innovate. It lays the foundation for the students to demonstrate their capabilities in different ways. Attentiveness helps students to understand the continuity of the subject.

 

Therefore, their grade points average suffers. Developing critical thinking skill is important for a student. It builds the intuitive power and problem solving capability. Class activities such as ten minutes pop quiz presentations can clarify how well they would perform in their future platform. Students often sit in the classrooms with an oblivious mood. Unfortunately, it is the usual scenario in many classrooms that sstudents are not attentive in the class and so always struggle to get through the subject matter. On an average fifty five percentages of the students are inattentive at the classroom every day.

 

Researchers found that students are inattentive because of uneasiness. When a student indulges in other activities like talking to other students, passing short notes, shaking legs at desk, stereotypic movement disorders, whispering, drawing pictures on the class notes, jiggling in the seat and not listening, we tend to think that anxiety could be the reason. Often students seem to be more attentive but suddenly their attention may drift away by other things at classroom. It depends how they use their capabilities to control their mind and make it attentive. But other things such as financial problems at homes, stress of exams, mental disorders, previous poor grades, less communicative skills, difficulties with a new culture, depressions, homesickness, problems with families and friends, parental misguides, loneliness, introverts, victim of racism and addictions can be the reasons for the loss of attention.

 

Another reason could be the topics of discussion, though some students may find it interesting and new other may find the same topic boring and blunt. In our school most of the classes follow the same standards and often same lesson are repeated. Every class should follow the different standards and should bring new syllabuses because students find new topics more interesting. Again the purpose of going to a school is to get an education as well as experience. The instructor should explore the reasons for heuristic behaviour of the students

 

Recently, innovative Google classrooms have become a popular medium for the students in abroad. It is effective especially for those who missed classes, coworker students and to face time management issues. But all the schools and educational organisations are not compatible with the Google classrooms and the requirements. Besides, students are not familiar with the Google classrooms and its operations. In a country like Bangladesh it is always not possible to implement the idea of Google classrooms as we have a limited budget.

 

So, classrooms need attention from the school authorities and textbooks units to make the topics of discussions appropriate and interesting enough for the students.

Daily Sun For all latest news, follow the Daily Sun's Google News channel. 
